- [Male Instructor] Now I've mentioned a couple times now
that the Spring Framework heavily relies on patterns.
And we're going to talk a little bit
about the patterns that play in this Spring Framework.
But again, the framework itself
is based on design patterns.
And from its core, patterns play a role
in almost every aspect of the framework.
Operationally, Spring itself works using patterns
but also supports your patterns in the process.
Inversion of Control Pattern is one of the major patterns
that is used by the Spring Framework.
And really in my opinion, this is the big pattern at play.
This is the big one, so to speak.
The one that matters more than anything else.
The entire runtime of the Spring framework
is based entirely on Inversion of Control.
Inversion of Control improves testability,
decreases coupling, enforces coding to an interface,
and the list goes on.
Now we're going to spend quite a bit of time talking
about Inversion of Control and how it applies
to the Spring Framework when we get to that video.
Now the Proxy Pattern, as I've alluded to before
is at play in Spring and every object managed by Spring
is wrapped in a proxy since 4.0.
This means every object that you create and configure
to be managed by the platform,
Spring wraps one or more proxies around that.
And these proxies bring major caveats
to the operation of Spring,
which we will talk about when we get
to the Proxy Pattern itself.
But these are things that you really have to
pay attention to because the expected behavior
in a non-proxied class
may be different than a proxied class.
So you really have to understand how this pattern
changes the behavior of a Spring application.
Now the power of the Proxy Pattern is that it allows
additional behaviors to be leveraged
throughout the framework.
And many times operations that you're doing,
the proxies are really what are adding the
quote unquote magic that Spring brings to the table.
And this is where this pattern becomes so important
for you to understand.
Now we couldn't talk about design patterns
without talking about the Factory Pattern.
It's probably the most common
and within Spring itself
the Factory Pattern is heavily used.
The IoC container, so the container
that actually handles inversion of control
is itself a factory.
And this factory's heavily leveraging the start up
as well as the run time operation of the Spring Framework.
Now there's first class support for factories in your code
but it's java so of course it's an object oriented language,
factories are prevalent.
But Spring actually has put legacy code in place
so that you can bring other factories
that you don't own into your IoC container.
Now I've talked again about singleton and prototype patterns
being at play in Spring.
But one thing to note is that most of your objects,
and in many cases all of your objects
that are configured for the Spring Framework
leverage one of these two patterns.
And the singleton pattern is the most popular
mainly because it's the default.
If you want a bean to actually be a prototype
you have to tell Spring make this a prototype
otherwise it's a singleton.
Now, one thing to note
when we talk about the singleton pattern
and I'll bring it up again
is that the singleton and Spring
is not a traditional singleton implementation.
And I'm going to show you the traditional implementation
when we get there
but essentially they work the exact same
because Spring is handling the construction
so they are handing you a bean that acts as a singleton
within your run time of your application.
Now, one of my favorite patterns
and the one that I really, really love
about the Spring framework is the Template Pattern.
The Template Pattern is used widely
when making remote calls.
And the two most common that most developers will see
is JDBC and REST.
Both of those have a specific template
that allow you to make that remote call.
Now, many third parties leverage the template pattern
to fit into the Spring framework
in order to remove boiler plate code
for using their tooling.
And that's very, very important to know
that this pattern of using templates for remote calls
is encouraged and it's actually used by many third parties
to operate the same way that Spring does.
Now finally I want to talk about the
Model-View-Controller Pattern.
The entire web framework of Spring is based
on the Model-View-Controller Pattern.
Now this applies to both traditional webpages
as well as RESTful services.
And I'm going to talk about
why those are really one in the same
when we talk about this pattern
because really the traditional webpage serves html
and our RESTful webservice serves xml or json
but it's still a view of the data.
Again, we'll talk about that when we get there.
One thing to note about this is just like the IoC Pattern
this is not a classic pattern from the gang of four.
But it is nonetheless very, very important to Spring
and we're going to talk about patterns in general,
not just gang of four patterns throughout this course.
So the mvc pattern is extremely important to Spring
and we're going to spend some time with it.